Java:
    High level, object oriented programming language developed by james Gostling in 1995 at sun-microsystems.
    Firstly introduced as OAK in 1991.

Features:
    Simple:
        java language is easy to learn if we are know basic programming principles.
    Secure:
        it achieves security by running java programs in java execution environment(JVM), and by not providing direct access to other parts of computer system.
    Object oriented:
        Designed on the principle "Everything under sun is an object". Provides a clean usable & programatic approach to objects.
    Robust:
        Java handles memory management by itself, so the programmer don't need to care regarding free up dynamic memory, it is done by garbage collector automatically.
    Portable:
        Byte-code generated by compiling a java program can on any maching that has JVM installed in it.
    Architecture neutral:
        Java Virtual Machine was designed to solve the porblem of java program compatibility issue due to system and processor upgrades or changes in core system resources. The goal was "write once, run anywhere, any time, forever".
    Distributed:
        Java is designed for distributed environment because it handles TCP/IP protocol. It is very useful for building distributed computing based applications.

Java Program Compilation:
    Java program compiler converts the java program file into a highly optimized class file called bytecode.

Java Program Execution:
    Class Loader:
        Loads teh class file to JVM execution environment.
    Bytecode Verifier:
        It verifies the bytecode and restricts the objects for illegel access of other parts of the system.
    Interpreter:
        It reads the bytecode instructions and executes them line by line.

JDK:
    Java Development kit is a kit that provides environment to develop and execute java programs.
    It consist of JVM, interpreter/loader(java), compiler(javac), and archiever(jar), a documentation generator(javadoc), etc to complete the development of java application.

JRE:
    Java Runtime Environment provides the minimum required resources for executing a java application, it consists of the JVM, core classes & supporting files.

JVM:
    It is a virtual machine, because it does not exist physically, but it provides a secure runtime environment to execute bytecode generated by compiling a java compiler.
    JVM actually invokes the main() method present in a program.
    JVM is a part of JRE.

